In order to understand where our products can improve,
product managers must be able to look at the steps each user takes to achieve a goal.
Creating a user funnel starts with identifying
the steps a user takes when going towards a desired action,
such as making a purchase,
or using a new feature.
We'll go over a few examples in the next slides.
But the classic user funnel is the e-commerce funnel,
where a user enters a website,
searches for an item,
puts the item into the shopping cart,
and checks out to purchase the item.
To analyze a user funnel,
product managers count the number of users who take each step,
and finally, take the desired action.
The shape of a funnel occurs,
because after each step,
the number of users may be reduced as customers fall out of the funnel.
When analyzing a funnel,
we can learn about areas in the product that might need
improvement by seeing where the largest drop off occurs.
The step where larger drop off occurs may be confusing,
or difficult for customers to make.
Here is an example of a user conversion funnel in action.
In this example, the goal of the funnel is to convert a potential user into a customer.
First, imagine 100 users click on an ad for an app.
Then, 80 users visit and read the App Store page.
Only 50 users download and install the app,
and of those, 40 actually start registration.
Finally, 30 of the original 100 users complete registration.
In this user conversion funnel,
30 percent of users converted to become a customer,
and by digging in and looking at the drop off from step to step,
we can see at which parts of the funnel users are most likely to drop off,
in pursuit of the goal of becoming a customer.
Funnel analysis first came from analysis of a sales funnel.
When a customer is deciding whether to purchase a product,
the steps they take in going from potential customer to paying customer,
are traditionally called the sales or marketing funnel.
The sales conversion funnel can be looked at in three stages:
awareness, evaluation, and purchase.
This step should seem very familiar,
as they correspond closely to
the user acquisition and activation KPIs discussed in lesson 2.
The difference is that while pirate metric KPIs provide
no star guidance about whether a product or feature is doing well,
funnels allow us to dig into detailed data about
a customer's step by step journey to find specific areas for improvement.
Stage 1 in the traditional sales funnel is awareness.
This is when the potential purchaser becomes aware of a need.
For example, a user is aware of his body weight gain and wants to eat healthier.
In his awareness stage,
he might be looking for solutions to obtaining a healthy diet.
The user in the awareness stage,
learns of the product being offered as one solution.
An example step that the user might take in the awareness stage would be to
click on an advertisement for fresh vegetables and healthy meal delivery,
and enter the website as the advertisement brings
a user into awareness of the potential purchase option.
Stage 2 in the traditional sales funnel, is evaluation.
This is when the potential purchaser considers their options.
A user in the evaluation stage,
takes the time to learn about their purchase options and
consider whether a purchase is aligned with their interests.
For example, in the evaluation stage,
the user we talked about earlier might be reading user reviews,
comparing prices, and even putting some items into a shopping cart.
The final stage in the traditional sales funnel is purchase.
This is when the potential purchaser becomes a paying customer.
This is the final stage,
because this stage is where the ultimate goal of the funnel is met.
For example, the step taken in this stage by the user we talked about earlier,
might be checking out and paying for some fresh vegetables,
or signing up for a subscription if he wants continuous service.
The user step in this stage is to make that purchase.